README.md, before:

![banner](./assets/colorgen.png?raw=true 'banner')

# colorgen-nvim

🚀 A colorscheme generator for Neovim written in Rust 🦀

## Installing

From `crates.io`:

```sh
cargo install colorgen-nvim
```

For development version

```sh
cargo install --git https://github.com/ChristianChiarulli/colorgen-nvim
```

## Usage

Create a toml file containing your highlight groups, there is an example in this repo called `user_template.toml`

**_NOTE_**: You can call this file whatever you want

```sh
colorgen-nvim user_template.toml
```

## Template

The template must contain a `information` section and a `palette` section

Example:

```toml
[information]
 name = "onedarker"
 background = "dark"
 author = 'Christian Chiarulli <chrisatmachine@gmail.com>'

[palette]
 fg = '#abb2bf'
 bg = '#1e222a'

 white = '#abb2bf'
 gray = '#545862'
 blue = '#519fdf'
 green = '#88b369'
 cyan = '#46a6b2'
 red = '#d05c65'
 orange = '#c18a56'
 yellow = '#d5b06b'
 purple = '#b668cd'
 magenta = '#D16D9E'
```

You can define color options in the palette section and use them later to set colors for different highlight groups

Example:

```toml
[highlights]
 Normal = 'fg bg'
 SignColumn = '- bg'
 MsgArea = 'fg bg'
 ModeMsg = 'fg bg'
 MsgSeparator = 'fg bg'
 SpellBad = 'red - u'
 SpellCap = 'yellow - u'
 SpellLocal = 'green - u'
 SpellRare = 'purple - u'
 NormalNC = 'fg bg'
 Pmenu = 'red bg - - 50'
 PmenuSel = '- blue'
 WildMenu = 'fg blue'
 CursorLineNr = 'light_gray - b'
 Comment = 'gray - i'

[Treesitter]
 TSComment = 'link:Comment'
 TSAnnotation = 'blue'
 TSAttribute = 'cyan'
 TSConstructor = 'cyan'
 TSType = 'cyan'
```

The format is `foreground background style special blend`

You can also choose to link a highlight group to another by passing `link:<name of hl group>`

The `-` is used to skip a particular section and replace it with `NONE`

Style Options:

- `o`: standout
- `u`: underline
- `c`: undercurl
- `d`: underdouble
- `t`: underdotted
- `h`: underdashed
- `s`: strikethrough
- `i`: italic
- `b`: bold
- `r`: reverse
- `n`: nocombine

TODO:

- support transparent background (this could get tricky with other plugins, considering bg:optional, if you put that then setting the transparent flag will set it to none) 

- italic comments

## Inspiration and Credits

- [vim-felipec](https://github.com/felipec/vim-felipec)
- [ez.nvim](https://github.com/murtaza-u/ez.nvim)

Commit message:

doc: document global variables in README

README.md, after:

![banner](./assets/colorgen.png?raw=true 'banner')

# colorgen-nvim

🚀 A colorscheme generator for Neovim written in Rust 🦀

## Installing

From `crates.io`:

```sh
cargo install colorgen-nvim
```

For development version

```sh
cargo install --git https://github.com/ChristianChiarulli/colorgen-nvim
```

## Usage

Create a toml file containing your highlight groups, there is an example in this repo called `user_template.toml`

**_NOTE_**: You can call this file whatever you want

```sh
colorgen-nvim user_template.toml
```

## Template

The template must contain a `information` section and a `palette` section

Example:

```toml
[information]
 name = "onedarker"
 background = "dark"
 author = 'Christian Chiarulli <chrisatmachine@gmail.com>'

[palette]
 fg = '#abb2bf'
 bg = '#1e222a'

 white = '#abb2bf'
 gray = '#545862'
 blue = '#519fdf'
 green = '#88b369'
 cyan = '#46a6b2'
 red = '#d05c65'
 orange = '#c18a56'
 yellow = '#d5b06b'
 purple = '#b668cd'
 magenta = '#D16D9E'
```

You can define color options in the palette section and use them later to set colors for different highlight groups

Example:

```toml
[highlights]
 Normal = 'fg bg'
 SignColumn = '- bg'
 MsgArea = 'fg bg'
 ModeMsg = 'fg bg'
 MsgSeparator = 'fg bg'
 SpellBad = 'red - u'
 SpellCap = 'yellow - u'
 SpellLocal = 'green - u'
 SpellRare = 'purple - u'
 NormalNC = 'fg bg'
 Pmenu = 'red bg - - 50'
 PmenuSel = '- blue'
 WildMenu = 'fg blue'
 CursorLineNr = 'light_gray - b'
 Comment = 'gray - i'

[Treesitter]
 TSComment = 'link:Comment'
 TSAnnotation = 'blue'
 TSAttribute = 'cyan'
 TSConstructor = 'cyan'
 TSType = 'cyan'
```

The format is `foreground background style special blend`

You can also choose to link a highlight group to another by passing `link:<name of hl group>`

The `-` is used to skip a particular section and replace it with `NONE`

Style Options:

- `o`: standout
- `u`: underline
- `c`: undercurl
- `d`: underdouble
- `t`: underdotted
- `h`: underdashed
- `s`: strikethrough
- `i`: italic
- `b`: bold
- `r`: reverse
- `n`: nocombine

You can also generate global variables for the colorscheme, which might be needed for some plugins.

```toml
[global]
variable = "<content>"
```

Where `"<content>"` accepts any string.

TODO:

- support transparent background (this could get tricky with other plugins, considering bg:optional, if you put that then setting the transparent flag will set it to none) 

- italic comments

## Inspiration and Credits

- [vim-felipec](https://github.com/felipec/vim-felipec)
- [ez.nvim](https://github.com/murtaza-u/ez.nvim)
